---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Design"
date: 2019-11-11
---

[I don't have a day by day update for this week, since my progress has been slow.]

For the design week, I started off by watching a fab academy video.

[AN TO insert screenshot of the picture]

According to the video, for this week, I had to pick any final project that I wanted to work on, and learn to design it using the tools that the video covered.

For 2D design, the following tools were recommended,
Raster
1. GIMP
2. Photoshop
3. Mypaint for sketches (lets you choose material brush -- emulates drawing on material)
4. Image magick (can convert existing image into any image format)
Vector
1. Inkscape
2. Illustrator
3. Free CAD video
4. Free CAD
5. Corel Draw
6. Layout
7. Scribus

For 3D DESIGN, some of the common terminologies we will be using as the weeks go by are
- CSG - Adding logic on shapes
- Constrained - adding relationships between drawings
- Hierarchical - changing one part changes everything associated with it
- Parametric - Everything in the drawing changes with a change in the parameters

For 3D, the video tutorial recommended the following tools,
1. Sketechup
2. TinderCAD
3. Blender
4. Rhinocerous
5. Grasshopper
6. Free CAD
7. Fusion 360
8. Autodesk
9. Solidworks
10. xDesign
11. Onshape
12. Maya alias 3Ds Max Cinema 4D houdini
13. Catia Creo NX
14. Magica Voxel Monolith

For simulations, the tutorial recommended the following tools,
1. Elmer
2. Cosmol
3. Simulation Simuli Abagus
4. Fusion 360
5. Ansys
6. Nostrom
7. Open dynamics engine
8. Modelica

For audio and video editing, the tutorial recommended the following tools,
1. Simple screen recorder
2. Audacity
3. Premiere after effects
4. mplayer simplayer VLC
5. HTML formats encoding

For game engines, the commonly used tools are,
1. Unity
2. Unreal

The idea behind the design week is to represent a tentative final project in as many ways as I can.

While working through the tools, I worked on creating basic geometric shapes, learning to push and pull, and break and combine objects.

For instance, I used GIMP and Inkscape for 2D design. On both, I learnt to draw basic shapes, combine two shapes. However, I've still not been able to subtract one shape from another. [I need to check with Richard on how I can do this on both these tools.]

Exercises on GIMP

[INSERT PICTURE]

Exercises on Inkscape 

[INSERT PICTURE]

